# Scott Campbell's Journal
## [20% Project Journal]
[Scott Campbell]

## February 5, 2016
For the past week, in this project, i have crated a large JPanel, in which i have ustilized a swing timer and java 2d graphics, to create a basic tennis game that allows the players to move left, right, forward and backwards as well as one player being able to hit the ball. Additionally, the project had me make a human body shape as well as original graphics in the court image that gives depth and persecive. This friday specifically, i worked on debugging the numerous issues involved in the graphics manipulation. I suspect the issue lies within the fact that there are issues in the projects coding regarding how the ball reacts to the player coordinate-wise. I feel that if ia am able to fix this issue, that the rest of the project will go very smoothly, and i will be able to add different options and additional perks All in all, i think that i am well on tract for reaching my first deliverable, one i fix the issues i suspect.'
## February 12, 2016
This last week, I have been working out the bugs regarding the players and how and where the ball goes when it is hit. I have been working on an algorithm that will generate a random set of coordinates for the ball to go to, so that the players could avoid staying in the same place hitting the ball back and forth. Additionally, I have been working on the computer player’s ability to move its racket to the ball and hit it back to the user player, however, I have not been able to get the computer player to return the ball for some reason. I additionally did some research and figured out how to implement different options to be available before the game setup. I have currently been working on the one player scenario with a computer player that can be set to different difficulties, and have started planning on making different game sets where there could be a two player option and possibly a doubles game option.'
##February 19, 2016
This week, I completed the graphics in the computer versus the human player, as well as adding a new function that allows the computer to switch the image of the player based upon the position of the player in relation to the position of the tennis Ball. If the ball is to the left, the players racket would move to the left. Right now I am working on fixing a way to modify the computer’s ability to return the ball based on the difficulty level selected, however, I have not finished that. Lastly this week I have been working on implementing text fields to allow the player to input image pathways to personalize the tennis games with faces and or court backgrounds. I also have been trying and researching how to put images inside shapes so that the image is appropriate size and shape. I feel like this week was more focused on research and ideas on how to implement different functions of the game.'
##February 26, 2016
This Week, I worked on my Graphics User Interface, which allows the user, when presented with the introduction screen, different game play options, such as player difficulty, game backgrounds: using a JTextField to let the user input a string of a color, image pathway, or color concentrations with red, green and blue. Additionally, I improved my Tennis Main class that creates a new JFrame when the actual game is going to be played.  Lastly, I created the computer player with a basic algorithm that moves his relative to the ball position as well as the improved portion that prevents him from teleporting to the balls position every time, and now rather, he moves at a designated speed that is determined by the users choice of player difficulty. I have had issues with drawing the proper buffered image to create the inputted file pathway, and mainly have had issues with drawing it on the game background. However, I feel I am well on my way to my second deliverable. As of now, the last thing I need to do is to allow the Game to stop and wait for one of the players to serve.
##March 4, 2016
This week, I worked on the implementation of a more efficient way to move the players to eliminate extra data use as well as unnecessary code that was making the program run slower and make unexpected changes. I also finished making the initial game set up GUI so that the user can click several different buttons to change the game settings such as personalized backgrounds with the JTextFields and preset background options. Additionally, I worked on the game settings for wen the player should serve, as well as automatically moving the server into the correct position and setting them up for the serve. I have also been working on adding several different buttons that would allow the player to change the game settings while playing the game as well as quitting the game. One problem I have found is that there is no way to close a JField on command, so that brings a problem of opening to many JFields.
##March 11, 2016
This past week, In my game, I began working on the timing aspect of how the game will be played out, for instance, which player should be where during the serving time periods, as well as I have begun to start creating a space on the right of the frame where I will put JLabels to represent the number of games, points and sets won by each player. I have done some research into how I might Implement a web camera into my game, but I have so far been met with the idea that I will not work well in my program. Instead of having a web camera, I also looked into the idea of taking a screenshot of the game at a spot with another JButton, and I have looked into the Robot function in Java. In conclusion, I have been working on finishing the computer difficulty, and have implemented a basic system for hitting the balls in different directions at different speeds, however, there are still some glitches in the ball positions.
##March 18, 2016
This Week, I have been working on cleaning up the JButton inside the actual game to actually allow the User to stop the game, and next I am going to add a pause button that will pause the game, and even save the game (While the initial game window is still open), and lastly even take a screen shot to save the game image such as a high score and or game Won. I have learned how to add an Action listener explicitly to a single button to reduce cross interference as well as mixed signals, However, I am having issues positioning the button, where it doesn’t go where I specify, and also the game score reports are initially messed up and don’t display in the right spot, I fixed this issue after the first score is reported, but I am confused why everything is messed up in the first place. Lastly, I have worked a little more on the initial game setup GUI and have added the functionality to change the game color, background and difficulty.
##April 1, 2016
This week, I have been working on implementing the final aspects of the basics of the two player graphics and key codes. For example, I have created two court images with both players on the bottom of the screen, the left controlled by WASD and the right controlled by the Arrow Keys. Also the ball image is shown initially on the left court, and so to show the ball on the right court I reflected the X and Y coordinates on both the mid horizontal and mid vertical lines. Additionally, I also added a few additional methods inside my player class that allows me to change the color, and I effectively created shadow players that mirror what the opponent (on the other side of the screen from you) is doing and hitting the ball. Lastly, I have looked into the addition of adding and playing mp3 files, however, I have not found a way to implement it successfully without stopping the current thread.
##April 8, 2016
This week, I have been w their faces, working on adding in a web camera to my program, which would allow the users to take pictures of their faces, and add them to the individualized players. Additionally, I have been doing further research in how to add sounds and audio to the game without having the game stop while a noise is being played. Lastly, I have been giving the two player option more effort in the game background as well as putting more advanced graphics and designs into the players and shadow players alike where instead of just having the players represented only by the return of the ball, I have added to players to mimic the movements of the opposing player to the one players side. The next step in the process will be to create the score board for the two player game, as well as a deliberate step by step method that will allow the player to move to the correct spot when it is their turn to serve.
##April 15, 2016
This Week, I have worked on debugging dome of the issues in my program that has been irksome. For example, in my two player game mode, there have been some issues on allowing the second player to actually hit the ball and change the slope, however, I have been slightly modifying the shadow players position, and that it mirrors the location of the ball exactly, so when the ball hits the shadow player for player two, it will change the balls slope to a random new set of parametric slopes. Next I have been modifying the player two version, so that the other bugs, aka the scoreboard, and the serving routines actually work, and are implemented smoothly. Additionally, I need to add the court graphics and implement a face that can be added. So far, this week I have mainly been cleaning up the second player game and in the future, I will be adding additional pieces to both the one player and two player games with time allowing. Lastly, I think I need to fix the startup GUI so that the small errors and conceptualities are fixed.
##April 22, 2016
This week, I have been focusing on refining my player two game class, where I have now added more finalized graphics and in addition have solved the big problem that has been haunting this game mode. The problem was initially that the players couldn’t hit the ball back the other direction, but after some manipulation of the get New Ball Slope method, I was able to successfully modify how each player sees the ball an consequently hits it back. To do this, I had to use the original ball coordinates, since the new ball coordinates didn’t seem to update and stay accurate enough, and that required the implementation of new methods in player to accept the new data type. Also, I have been working on adding the score card that keeps track of the game scores, as well as the other game functions that will be added into the game. So far I am on track for my next deliverable, but I still need to finish the graphics on the two player games, aka the nets, but overall I want to add a special screen that has a win, and I need to finish the head graphics for all the players.
